- [Instructor] When building API definitions,
some objects such as schemas or parameters
may be found within more than one operation definition.
Just like programming, it's important to keep it dry,
meaning do not repeat yourself.
To enforce this best practice, the OpenAPI Specification
provides us with a way to reuse certain objects
by making them reusable components
within our API definition file.
Let's look at our API, we find at least three instances
where we define a data structure representing a product,
one within the get operation for product,
one within the post operation for product,
and then one within our endpoint
containing the template parameter
It would be very helpful
if we could reuse a data structure for this product,
and that's what we're going to take a look at
within this lesson.
To begin, we're going to navigate to the bottom
of our API definition file, and then using auto-completion,
we're going to look for the components object,
and then within that components object,
we're able to specify the schemas object and here,
we can use a name for our object we'd like to create,
in this case, Product.
Within the product, we need to specify
what this data structure, or this reusable object,
is going to look like.
So, we have a really good idea
because we've defined this multiple times,
so we know it is an object that has a name and id property,
so what I'm going to do is just copy this definition
and then of course I need to line up this YAML
to make sure it's valid,
and once that's complete, we'll have a valid API definition.
Now we have this Product object that we can refer to
throughout our API, so let's scroll up,
and here we see that we are defining Product,
so at this point, we can remove this explicit definition
of our schema, and we'll get introduced to a new property,
and it's the $ref property,
and once we've selected that property,
just hit Control + Space and start typing Product,
and then you can select the product
that we defined within our components section.
You'll notice there's a path pointing to that product,
once again, introduce the reference,
a reference to our product,
and that will satisfy our API definition file.
let's clean that up.
Okay, so now if we look at our documentation,
you can see we still have the same old product
described for each of these operations,
we only need to do it in one spot.
So here, I'm adding a description for our product,
and then I'm going to provide an example
and you will notice that each of our operations
is now updated with our new property for our Product object.
So, let's go ahead and we're going to add in
two more additional properties here
that will be used by our API,
the first that we're going to add is the image_title,
so we're going to be able to provide some sort of image
via this API, and the image_title's going to be a string,
and, just as an example, we're going to say
that it's mineral-water-lemon-lime,
and then we can add another property,
and this property is going to the image itself,
and here we're going to create a hyperlink
to the actual image,
and we'll just make up a fictional URL here
to where that image resides.
Now, another neat thing that we can do
within the component section is define some validations
for our different objects that we create.
So here you can see the required property,
and within that property, we can specify an array
of required fields on this object,
so here we're saying that the name property
is required anytime that we specify a Product object,
and if we take a look at the schemas
defined within our documentation
that our API consumers can see,
you'll notice that name gets the required indicator.
So, when a schema or object appears over and over again
within your API definitions,
look to move it to the components section
so that you can achieve that reusability
and make your API definition files much more maintainable.